And you're listening to WMNF 88.5
On your dial WMNF Tampa and this is the ultrasound show on every Thursday night
From 11 to 1. My name is Elove and tonight we have special guests
We're going to be speaking with Dr. Ray Peat who has a PhD in biology from the University of Oregon with
specialization physiology. He's taught at several universities including the Uni of Oregon and
Montana State University and also the National College of Naturopathic Medicine and
Black College. He also conducts private nutritional counseling and today
We're speaking with him about the effects of stress and trauma on the body
Greetings and welcome to the ultrasound show
Okay, so let's dive in
Tonight's theme is really about how the body reacts to stress and trauma
So let's first talk about day to day stress and what happens to the body and the brain
physiologically
The first thing is that
If you're really healthy, you can meet challenges without
experiencing
Something that on cell you would have called stress
For example
if you
Are not very healthy
Just skipping a meal can put you in really serious stress, but a healthy person
stores something like seven or eight ounces of
glucose in the form of glycogen in the liver and
muscles and brain and
since
At rest muscles can burn
primarily fatty acids
Your brain is the main thing that consumes
Glucose so if you're
More or less
Inactive and relaxed you can easily go 12 to 15 hours without eating and without having any stress at all
but if you're not able to store that much glycogen and
For example low thyroid people or people with a history of severe stress
Aren't able to store very much glycogen and so
When you run out of sugar whether it's from going
All day without eating or because your liver isn't very efficient
then if your body tries to
Increase the available
glucose
normally just
Being awake makes enough
Adrenaline to mobilize as much of the glucose from your stores as you need
But when you run out of that stored sugar
Your brain still requires
sugar to
function properly and
so
Instead of just increasing the adrenaline more and more when the adrenaline
Reaches a certain level and can't get the blood sugar up out of your storage
Then you turn on the cortisol and that's the classic
Stress that can be harmful because it the cortisol
dissolves our first tissues like the
assignments which are very fragile
That starts turning to sugar
just
immediately when you run out of stored glycogen and
When the thymus is gone in just two or three hours of intense stress
That happens to be one of the reasons they think adults
don't have thymus glands because by the time they're dead and
Are analyzed the thymus has been eaten up by stress
So they might have had a perfectly normal thymus until they were sick and dead
But after the thymus is consumed and turned to sugar then
the cortisol starts breaking down your muscles and
then the skin and
the brain lungs and heart are spared from stress partly because they are
very
saturated
in a healthy person with
androgens testosterone and DHEA especially which block the
breakdown function of cortisol and
If your brain lungs and heart are short of those
Protective steroids, then that's where the stress really starts
causing
severe deadly damage and
The
Post-traumatic stress disorder
Is produced when someone has had such terrible stress such as being tortured or?
or being in
terrific
catastrophes
They not only deplete their
stored
glycogen and break down the
expendable tissues like thymus and liver but
Then the cortisol starts damaging the brain and heart and so on so they get
very severe
chronic symptoms and
Once the stress is completely resolved then the brain can massively regenerate itself
for example, they've seen MRIs of
girls who had simply been
in the anorexia for months their brain shrinks from the
Living on the cortisol breaking down their tissues
But once they start eating then the brain can rebuild itself in just a few weeks
Now how often does one?
have to eat or is it required or recommended for one to eat in order to
not have this
stress reaction happen
the
famous Argentine
biologist Bernardo who sighed in the 1940s I think he was the first one to show that
If he fed his animals only once a day
They not only tended to get fat on the same amount of calories, but they
Had a high incidence of diabetes, but if he fed them at least three times a day or more
Then they were very resistant to diabetes and were less fattened on a given number of calories
so
More or less nibbling all the time is the safest thing. But if you have a really good diet and
aren't under emotional
pressure
Then the person can
Get along on
one or two meals a day
Now let's talk about a really good diet
What is a really good diet for the optimal health of the body the brain the heart all of the organs?
there's a lot of
disputes and conversations about optimal diets
Does it differ with different people or is there an overall?
Optimal and then there's little bits and pieces that different people with different blood types can do
The blood type has almost no effect because you can see in a even very different
species of
animal
That have very different ways of living you can see the same processes
So there's a universal animal
diet that is
optimal but the proportions vary with the type of activity and your body size and
Metabolic rate
And personal history your previous stresses will affect what you need
So let's talk about someone who perhaps is not that healthy and that does have stress which is quite common
What would be the recommended?
Diet for them. What's some of the things that they can eat?
One of the reasons that the single meal eaters tend to get fat and diabetic
Is that it triggers a great surge of insulin and the insulin then triggers?
Cortisol and so if you can eat foods that don't trigger insulin
that's the ideal thing and
fruit happens to be the
best single type of food
for not triggering the stress reaction because
It combines very small amounts of protein with large amounts of sugar and the minerals
Potassium happens to
handle the sugar in place of insulin and
the fructose
component of
fruit sugar
Doesn't require insulin
so
Eating a lot of fruit even in one meal a day
produces a much smaller amount of insulin obesity and cortisol
than eating for example
just one big meal of
meat and potatoes for example
meat powerfully stimulates insulin and cortisol and
starches are more
stimulating to insulin than sugars
So it's almost counterintuitive when you're talking about
Taking in fructose in the form of fruit with people that are insulin sensitive
Well for about a hundred years
fructose has been
recognized as the ideal sugar for diabetics because they can metabolize it
without needing
insulin
It used to be sold in
Health food stores all across the country and you can still find it in in most health food stores for diabetics
now let's
talk about high fructose corn syrup and the difference between
fructose from fruit
The funny thing about that is that if you look at the
fructose and glucose
content it
Seems to be not very different from any old sugar maybe
45 55 percent
Rather than a exact 50/50 balance for toast and glucose
but people
actually thought to
Analyze what is in the stuff other than?
fructose and glucose
It turns out that the reason people get fat on
Soft drinks that contain it is that it contains a huge amount of calories
That are neither
glucose nor fructose
It's the syrupy component basically a type of corn starch or corn syrup
which
They don't count it because it isn't fructose or glucose, but it's there as calories
Now they're using this in so many different things from salad dressings to soft drinks
Yeah, it was a trick because of the
boycott of Cuban sugar starting in the
60s
The price of sugar went up because they wouldn't buy it from where it was cheap
so the corn starch producers have learned how to
produce something resembling sugar and
It's really like the old kerosene syrup, which was
Not a very appetizing way to sweeten things, but during the Second World War
The I think the Germans pioneered it but in the United States
Sugar was scarce and the corn syrup
started being used in
canned things and even
in homes as a substitute for sugar
but the
Sweeter
form more palatable form that they call high fructose corn syrup was developed in the 60s in response to the
increased price of sugar
It's amazing. They've done similar things with oils too
in using oils that are quite toxic in our foods
Yeah
cottonseed industry
was a major
power behind that way back in the end of the
1800s
the
Gin of to make cotton textiles
More more economical they had machines to get the seeds out of the cotton and
In proportion to the production of cotton they were accumulating seeds that were too toxic to feed to animals and
They found that they could squeeze oil out of the cottonseed and
By chemically hardening it they could sell it as artificial butter and
The butter industry finally
They were
for I guess about 20 years required to
sell it in a
Colorless state and the person had to add color so that it wouldn't ruin the the butter industry, but
the seed
industry seed oil industry gradually got powerful enough that they could
Convince people that's better than butter
But in fact it has many toxic effects that butter doesn't have is this the same as rapeseed oil?
The first rapeseed oil
happened to cause
severe heart disease and
the industry wanted to sell it for margarine and cooking oil and so on and
There was a particular oil in that plant that they decided to blame
the heart
injury on
but Han Selly
Did experiments
studying the the type of lesion in the heart produced by
Rapeseed oil and he found that it was the linoleic acid in it
Which is still in it they took out the?
peculiar
unusual fatty acid but
the
essential fatty acid linoleic acid is it's heart toxic and
Han Selly showed that if you added cocoa butter
Highly saturated stearic acid
To the rapeseed oil it no longer caused death of the heart cells
So it's just the excess of polyunsaturated
fat that made the
Rapeseed oil or canola or cottonseed oil all of those
are
Actually toxic if you eat very much of it. What about soybean oil because they're all GMO now
Yeah
It's still the polyunsaturated
component which is and it turns into
Prostaglandins which promote all kinds of inflammation and degenerative diseases as early as
1964 I
Think he was a Dutch researcher named Betcher
Sliced opened the
lesions in
atherosclerotic arteries
at all different stages of development and
analyzed the fats in them and he saw that
He called it a
primitive idea that cholesterol
got
Diffused out of the blood into the artery and damaged it. He said that the situation is very different from that and
many fats
change at the beginning before the change happens in the cholesterol and in the most advanced
lesions the farthest advanced
Atherosclerosis he found that the
content of linoleic acid
was highest the worst the lesion and
after that many other people demonstrated that the
Oxidation products of these unstable highly unsaturated fats
are found increasingly in the
atherosclerosis
It's very interesting to me that
things like
These different seed oils canola oil soybean oil high fructose corn syrup
butter substitutes all of these things are being advertised as better for your health and
It's really about the consumers
Self-educating themselves and looking beyond the advertising
Yeah, it's um they have to think of some
excuse for
Claiming that people should buy them because they don't taste good
and so the idea that
if they are essential
in some sense
Then the more you eat the better they are but in fact
It's very questionable whether they're essential as a nutrient at all
animals can live
More or less indefinitely you can grow cells forever in the dish without any of those
which I
Think that alone proves that they're not essential nutrients and the more
You increase in the diet
There's a direct
relationship with the incidence of spontaneous cancer in proportion to the essential fatty acids so called and
That was first demonstrated in 1927 and over and over but the industry
keeps
Publicizing them as a health food
Well that's
That's the way it's been for many many years and it'll probably continue
Although I think people are becoming more aware and being more conscious and really trying to seek out
different dietary options and
Going back to the roots has been a big surgence of
Grass-fed beef for example
Yeah
beyond fruits in the ideal diet
the
ruminants are
able to
detoxify the polyunsaturated fats in grains or grasses and
It happens to be vitamin E in the grass
which
enables them to
convert
polyunsaturated linoleic acid into the trans fatty acids and the
there's one of the
Components of butter or beef fat that is being sold as a drug or a health food
Because it counteracts the toxic effects of the polyunsaturated fats. That's called the conjugated
linoleic acid
and you get some of that in beef butter cheese and milk and
The
High
Ratio of calcium to phosphate in butter and cheese
comes from the fact that
green leaves if the cows are allowed to
Eat at least some
hay and and grass
the
Leaves
contain a
low amount of phosphate and a high amount of magnesium calcium and other
safe minerals
too much phosphate which
You would get on a grain based and meat based diet mostly
the phosphate becomes toxic when it isn't balanced by at least as much calcium and
other minerals including magnesium and
So milk and fruit and cheese give you the
main
nutrients and
Then there are just the the regionally
deficient
things such as iodine and selenium
That if you eat some kind of seafood
Then you're getting the the basic things for
anti-stress foods
So for vegetarians, would you say that it's a little more difficult
Because they're not eating these products
Yeah, but the if you
concentrate on well-cooked greens
The protein and mineral balance in cooked green leafy vegetables
those are
Essentially the same as in milk
It's just less concentrated because of the high cellulose
diluting it but
if you can
Cook away or wash away or skim away
the
Antinutrients for example too much spinach contains oxalic acid that
tends to take the calcium out of your teeth and
Some leafy vegetables
Have
Chemicals that block your
Stomach digestive enzymes, but a
variety of cooked greens will provide
the same type of protein that milk provides as well as the
very favorable balance of
magnesium potassium and calcium in relation to phosphate
So aside from the spinach what other vegetables would be better off cooked as opposed to raw and do you?
Advocate any raw foods or raw salads in the mix on the very juicy
Fruits are best raw, but if they're starchy like bananas or plantains
They should be cooked by preference
because the
the starches
Can enter the bloodstream and trigger allergic reactions and too much
undercooked starch
It's called persarpen the particles enter the bloodstream and
can block
capillaries and arterioles
causing cells to die until
the
The particle can be broken down, but it can stay in place long enough to kill
cells in the heart and brain and lungs
Feeding mice on a very high
raw starch diet
Biologists in in Germany found that
they were very prematurely aged because of the
Death of cells in all of their organs that were blocked by starch grains
So on starch like potatoes are almost a perfect food if they're very well cooked
because you want to break down the starch and
the
Non starch ingredients of a potato
Have almost a perfect balance of nutrients
B vitamins
The essential amino acids
Carbohydrate in the right proportion and
The only things lacking in a pure potato diet would be vitamin A and
vitamin B12
Otherwise, they're a very balanced food. Are you speaking about sweet potatoes or white potatoes?
The
Some white potatoes so called contain
enough carotene that
that could provide
the requirement of vitamin A but
sweet potatoes often contain so much carotene that it interferes with digestion and
Too much carotene has anti hormonal effects that can slow down your production of thyroid hormones
Progesterone
Adrenal hormones and so on
If it accumulates to the point that it's making your
palms turn orange
Which it does with some people who are juicing carrots a lot
Yeah, I
Constantly warn people about that. There are good chemicals in the juice good nutrition, but unless your thyroid is
pretty active it's going to accumulate the carotene because
you
convert carotene to vitamin A if you have vitamin B12 in
proportion to how active your thyroid hormone is and
if for some reason
You're getting more carotene than your vitamin B12 and thyroid can handle
Then it turns off the thyroid function. I
Experienced that myself
about 40 years ago
Eating
so many carrots that I
Suppressed my thyroid
But if your thyroid is good, then having a whole carrot every day has some very
important anti stress
functions
yesterday I heard from a woman who said that she had started a daily carrot salad and
Had almost immediate relief from all of her
premenstrual and digestive problems
And we've measured the
blood hormones in a few people after they started a daily whole carrot and
It's the stimulating effect on the intestine the fiber in the carrot isn't digestible and so the
excretion of the bile into the liver
carries all kinds of detoxified
chemicals and hormones
that if you have a
fiber in your intestine
These toxins that the liver has got rid of will be carried out bound to the carrot fiber
but without enough fiber they can be reabsorbed and recycled and so your
estrogen tends to go up as the fiber in your diet goes down and
That in turn turns off your your thyroid and progesterone
so it can cause
all the symptoms of
estrogen and cortisol excess and
In just three or four days we've seen the
cortisol and estrogen level in the blood
Drop as the progesterone comes up just from eating a daily carrot
It's so interesting how the food that we eat influences everything about our body
Yeah
Lots of people partly because of a bad
Industrialized diet I think lots of Americans are now going around in a chronically stressed
Condition it's sort of like learned
helplessness or post-traumatic stress syndrome
that the diet
keeps people in a high cortisol high estrogen state and
That's something that if you're going to have any stress you should
Well before you have to do any important work
you should
Make sure that your diet isn't
creating the stress day by day and
for example
checking your thyroid function just by
measuring your temperature and pulse rate when you wake up and
Then in the middle of the day your they should rise
so that your pulse is maybe 80 per minute at rest and your
Temperature should be around ninety eight point six at rest
Yeah in the morning. It's okay for them to be
about ten percent
lower pulse rate and
maybe
97.8 degrees or so
Now
This can also be influencing the fact that men are having hormonal issues as well, correct
Who having
In in other words the food that that both men and women are eating men are also having hormonal issues
It's not only women
Yeah
When a man is on a very bad diet or is under stress or has an accident the
estrogen level rises
sharply
and in the old age
with any of the degenerative diseases
men tend to
have a sharp increase in
Estrogen
So they can avoid this or monitor this by their diet
Yeah, and your temperature is is the quickest way because
Estrogen lowers your temperature thyroid and progesterone and DHEA
help to maintain a
good steady
high metabolic rate even at rest
So when people get cold when they're sitting there in front of their desk or or at home
Then that may indicate that the hormones have changed and the thyroid is dropping
Yeah, and one of the tricks of the body
through
increasing the
adrenaline can compensate for hypothyroidism and
so some people are are
hyper alert and anxious
and have a high heart rate even though their thyroid is is really low and
Their temperature can be
held up and look normal
Except that it's likely to be higher when you first wake up in the morning and then decrease
When you eat something so it switches
Yeah, because the nighttime is when you aren't eating and your adrenaline and cortisol rise
Those can tear down your tissues
At such a rate that they keep your temperature up then when you eat something and lower the stress
you see that your
metabolism is really not so high and
When the adrenaline is very high
Even though your oral temperature might seem normal your hands and feet will be cold
And maybe the tip of your nose even
because the body is
Directing the energy so that your brain lungs and heart aren't deprived or chilled
but
your body cannot
Consider your hands and feet somewhat expendable and let them get very cold
so if we up the stress levels, and we've been speaking mostly about general stress and
someone does have a
particular experience or if they have a surgery
Then there's additional chemical changes, or there's more severe chemical changes some of the symptoms in post-surgery
can include
low energy or weight gain or hormonal changes or even depression and sleep disorders and
even dementia
Lately they've been measuring mental function
after major surgery and
for months even years after major surgery
people's mental function is
often
slowed down
That's because of the chronic effect of cortisol
which
slows nerve conduction it protects
your some of your tissues from inflammation
but it
progressively
damages your immune system and your
nervous system
So what would be the best way for recovery?
And what are some of the things that people can do for recovery?
Specifically no in terms of
general diet specific things or
your advice in general
the
thing about surgery as opposed to a car accident or or being tortured or something
is that
you can prepare for it and
Even the standard medical sources are now
saying that you should check
thyroid function before you schedule someone for surgery because a
hypothyroid person
Doesn't do well in surgery because their cortisol is already high
The before Hans Zellye made stress famous
an American
surgeon
George Kryol in Cleveland
hundred over a hundred years ago was studying a
shock from surgery and
What you had to do to minimize?
the shock and
Shock as he understood it
came to be part of
shock and stress as Hans Zellye
interpreted it and
for Zellye
an excess of
Estrogen was enough to create the whole shock syndrome and
George Kryol
In in the hospital in Cleveland that he worked at in
1908 the
mortality rate from all their surgeries was
4.4 percent
and
After he devised a way to reduce stress
in five years of
application it had cut the mortality to 1.8 percent and
His basic procedure was to
Convince the brain that nothing had happened. He called it an "annosy association"
meaning
getting the
brain to
Not notice the the noxious
events and
he
found that histamine was
released by morphine
When it was used to control pain that histamine brought on
all of these other stress hormone changes
So he added an anti histamine an herbal
drug called scopolamine
Basically an anti histamine anti stress
preparation to go with the anesthesia and
Then he used a local anesthetic
To stop
First he would anesthetize the skin then
As the skin was cut each layer would get a local anesthetic
So that he was not letting the brain
receive any of those harmful signals but
careless quick
Surgery nowadays often is very rough and the patient wakes up with
Changes in the brain from that powerful noxious stimulation of the surgery and
So if you can get the doctor to
Reduce the trauma of the surgery
that's a very important part of recovering and
Like the hypothyroid person
doesn't
recover very well because their metabolic rate is slow their temperature is also very low and
since the surgery
Turning on the the stress hormones turns off the thyroid function
temperature tends to drop
drastically during and following surgery and
in proportion to how the temperature falls the
person's recovery is
impaired
So everything that will keep your your temperature up during and after surgery
preparing with
At least two weeks of
Adjusting thyroid so that you're not hypothyroid
That makes the recovery a lot faster
The
Study in Mississippi, I think it was
Found that if the
Emergency intensive care people would check the patient's vitamin D levels
as they came in
they found that out of
178 cases only three people had normal vitamin D
Partly that means that
deficient people get sick more often or that sickness lowers your vitamin D, but
some of them had as low as eight or ten
nano
Nanograms per milliliter where it should be 50 or 55
that's the normal range and
the
when he got the dietician to
check their vitamin D levels and supplement vitamin D the
length of stay in intensive care was cut in half
survival increased and
the expenses
that saved the hospital more than half of the
Expenses just by that one vitamin. It's amazing
You mentioned a vitamin. It's amazing
You mentioned a herbal antihistamine earlier. What was that again?
That was scopolamine and that is sometimes available
If a person is nauseated after surgery
That's a very safe
anti-nausea drug which
Does several things that helps to hold up the body temperature besides stopping the nausea?
And can it be used with anesthetics?
Yeah, it was part of the
anesthesia that was pioneered by
George Creil and it's still occasionally in use but since it's a
generic herbal
chemical
The drug companies aren't very keen on having it promoted
But it is available both as part of the anesthetic and part of the recovery program
And what can people do as far as specific diet for post-surgery recovery to?
Help their brain and their body recover. Um the same foods that are generally good but
emphasizing
The things that are lost specifically by high stress
Which are protein, zinc
Some of the B vitamins are turned over very fast in stress so
foods like
liver and oysters and eggs which are rich in the trace minerals and protein are
As long as you're getting
adequate
carbohydrate and
calcium these happen to be high phosphate foods along with the protein, but
they have the
highest concentration of the healing
minerals and vitamins
You're listening to WMNF Tampa 88.5 on your dial and we're speaking with dr. Ray Pete and
We spoke a little bit earlier about cheeses, and I wanted to ask you a question
Relating to
Pasteurization you mentioned that there's beneficial nutrients does this get discounted once the
milks or cheeses are pasteurized
No, it's such a tiny amount of a pasteurized it now in
I think it's something like three seconds
High temperature and then it drops immediately
So there's very little oxidative damage done now by pasteurizing
So it's a quick flash
Pasteurization yeah
beautiful
It might lower the vitamin A content three or four percent something like that but
Since it's such a good rich source of all these nutrients
No one is going to suffer deficiency if they're eating pasteurized milk and cheese
And what's your feeling about exercise during that recovery time for people that have gone through surgery?
um - I think
better just to
regain
Flexibility and
mobility in a gentle way not to worry about muscle building exercise
The time to think about that is before surgery because
in one study of old people
They found that the fatter they were the better their long-range survival was in the six months
following a surgery
The death rate was much higher in the lean
low-body mass people and
That survival went up directly in proportion to the body mass and
The
In aging or stress
the
muscles are
Shrunken and it isn't just the fat that is a buffer against stress
but it's mainly the mass of the muscles and
Exercises such as deep knee bends
Mild weight lifting with dumbbells
Just a few minutes a day of
mild
resistance exercise of that sort can keep your muscles
sound and
relatively massive and
muscles are
Themselves a hormone source they can produce
Testosterone
instead of cortisol
When you're doing these resistant exercises
so they are
The muscle building is protecting your heart and brain as well as building up the reserves of tissue
That are part of your resistance against stress
You mentioned that the cortisol damages the brain once the trauma has happened
Is that reversible over time if someone is
Following a protocol that would support their greater health
Yeah, it's probably just the same as the following anorexia
That they've seen that young women
Can have a great and quick
regrowth of the mass of the brain substance
just by
stopping the stress and starting to eat well, and I think that would happen with old people who are
partially demanded by
stress of
very serious surgery
and
Lastly I wanted to chat a little bit about adrenals as
Many many people these days seem to be suffering from low adrenals or adrenal fatigue
I
Mentioned that the muscles are an important source of steroid synthesis our biggest
endocrine gland is our brain
and
the brain
Stabilizes all of the organs and if if your brain is experiencing stress
that
shifts the
the adrenal function to
Cortisol rather than
DHEA and progesterone and the androgens
and
The adrenals
Shouldn't
Produce simply the stress promoting hormones. They should be putting out some of the defensive
Protective progesterone DHEA and pregnenolone as well
But when your brain gives them
these super stress signals then and
they will
over over
act and
the
Hansel you
Defined the adrenal failure as when
The adrenal gland begins bleeding and the cells die that make steroids
but the adrenal cortex is
extremely able to regenerate as fast as the thymus and
Thyroid gland the cortex of the adrenal if you're well fed and if you stop the stress signals
It can regenerate
So what Hansel you was was talking about was
an acute stress causes immediate bleeding of your stomach and intestines and
That's because of the high cortisol production among other stress hormones and
If you continue that too long without feeding some of the
Curative
nutrients
sugars zinc
magnesium calcium and so on vitamin D
then the adrenal glands can't keep up the intense work and
they start bleeding and
tissue dies
Too much estrogen is one of the things that can contribute to
Overacting of the adrenal cortex in animal experience
experiments we saw that just injecting a big dose of
estrogen would cause adrenal
Enlargement in a moderate case or bleeding and death in an extreme dose of estrogen
Absolutely amazing
How everything is so connected and
Reactive of what we're doing both with our diet and our exercise and our lifestyle choices
I should mention that cholesterol and
thyroid and vitamin A are the
important things for keeping the adrenal cortex from getting stressed to death because
the cortisol of the cholesterol is the
raw material for making cortisol and the other stress
adaptive hormones and without enough
cholesterol and
thyroid and vitamin A
These cells are simulated but can't can't work and so they they just give up and atrophy
What sources of cholesterol would you recommend?
I'm a good diet
Plenty of fruit and milk in the diet will allow your
tissues
especially the liver and brain
to make as much cortisol as much cholesterol as they need and
Speaking of liver
Would you recommend for people to eat liver if they do eat meat to eat liver or heart or kidneys?
from grass-fed
Beef for example, is that a helpful thing to?
Yeah
the liver
except for the ratio of calcium to phosphate
The liver has the highest concentration of the anti-stress
nutrients and
So at least twice a month there should be a good meal of liver for stress resistance
Maybe once a week
for four ounces a week is a safe and
Effective amount good old liver and onions a
Dr. Ray Peate, thank you so so much for joining us tonight on the ultrasound show
it is always such a delight to have you on and
we very very much appreciate your time and
Fountain of information if people would like to get in touch with you and find out more about your own
Services, where do they go?
My website is RayPeate.com
And you also have a YouTube page, correct?
I don't know
You are up on YouTube and people can listen to some of your interviews and
I have on my website
Radiantsoul.com one of our past interviews where we spoke about
Good fats and coconut oil and that was very informative and we had many many people
Commenting and writing back about that. So thank you so so much. Okay. Thank you
Many many blessings much love sweetheart. Thank you
And we've been speaking with dr. Ray Peate and
If you
Just tuned in halfway through you can always listen to this show again for the next
Six or seven days until it gets replaced and you can go to